src/coreComponents/schema/docs/SourceFlux.rst, before:



====================== ================== ======== ============================================================================== 
Name                   Type               Default  Description                                                                    
====================== ================== ======== ============================================================================== 
bcApplicationTableName groupNameRef                Name of table that specifies the on/off application of the boundary condition. 
beginTime              real64             -1e+99   Time at which the boundary condition will start being applied.                 
component              integer            -1       Component of field (if tensor) to apply boundary condition to.                 
direction              R1Tensor           {0,0,0}  Direction to apply boundary condition to.                                      
endTime                real64             1e+99    Time at which the boundary condition will stop being applied.                  
functionName           groupNameRef                Name of function that specifies variation of the boundary condition.           
initialCondition       integer            0        Boundary condition is applied as an initial condition.                         
logLevel               integer            0        Log level                                                                      
name                   groupName          required A name is required for any non-unique nodes                                    
objectPath             groupNameRef                Path to the target field                                                       
scale                  real64             0        Scale factor for value of the boundary condition.                              
setNames               groupNameRef_array required Name of sets that boundary condition is applied to.                            
====================== ================== ======== ==============================================================================

Commit message:

Fixed solver "amount of fluid" units (kg or mol), and added documentation to clarify its usage.

src/coreComponents/schema/docs/SourceFlux.rst, after:



====================== ================== ======== ======================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================== 
Name                   Type               Default  Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
====================== ================== ======== ======================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================== 
bcApplicationTableName groupNameRef                Name of table that specifies the on/off application of the boundary condition.                                                                                                                                                                                                           
beginTime              real64             -1e+99   Time at which the boundary condition will start being applied.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
component              integer            -1       Component of field (if tensor) to apply boundary condition to.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
direction              R1Tensor           {0,0,0}  Direction to apply boundary condition to.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
endTime                real64             1e+99    Time at which the boundary condition will stop being applied.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
functionName           groupNameRef                Name of a function that specifies the variation of the production rate variations of this SourceFlux.Multiplied by scale. If no function is provided, a constant value of 1 is used.The producted fluid rate unit is in kg by default, or in mole if the flow solver has a useMass of 0. 
initialCondition       integer            0        Boundary condition is applied as an initial condition.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
logLevel               integer            0        Log level                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
name                   groupName          required A name is required for any non-unique nodes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
objectPath             groupNameRef                Path to the target field                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
scale                  real64             0        Multiplier of the functionName value. If no functionName is provided, this value is used directly.                                                                                                                                                                                       
setNames               groupNameRef_array required Name of sets that boundary condition is applied to.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
====================== ================== ======== ========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================
