LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY NOTICE
---------------------------------------------

LLNL-CODE-746361

Portions of this work were produced under the auspices of the U.S. Department 
of Energy by Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory under Contract DE-AC52-07NA27344.

This work was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency of the
United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor Lawrence
Livermore National Security, LLC, nor any of their employees makes any warranty,
expressed or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the
accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or
process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned
rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service
by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not necessarily
constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United
States Government or Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC. The views and
opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those
of the United States Government or Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC,
and shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.

STANFORD UNIVERSITY NOTICE
--------------------------
 Any use of Stanford’s name or trademarks, (ii) the name or trademarks of any 
 organization related to Stanford, or (iii) the name of any Stanford faculty member, 
 employee, student or volunteer must comply with Stanford’s Name Use Guidelines, 
 https://trademarks.stanford.edu/name-use-guidelines

TOTAL NOTICE
--------------------------
This work is provided “as is”, without warranty of any kind, express or implied, 
including but not limited to the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a 
particular purpose and noninfringement. In no event shall TOTAL SA, its affiliates 
or its employees be liable for any claim, damages or other liability, whether in 
an action of contract, tort or otherwise, arising from, out of or in connection
with this work.
