src/docs/sphinx/developerGuide/Contributing/UsingDocker.rst, before:

.. _UsingDocker:

[Unsupported] Developing inside Docker with precompiled TPL binaries
====================================================================

For development purposes, you may want to use the publicly available docker images instead of compiling them yourself.
While this is possible and this page will help you in through this journey, please note that *this is not officially supported by the GEOS team that reserves the right to modify its workflow or delete elements on which you may have build your own workflow*.

There are multiple options to use the exposed docker images.

- A lot of IDE now provide remote development modes (e.g. `CLion <https://www.jetbrains.com/help/clion/remote-projects-support.html>`_, `VS Code <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/remote-overview>`_, `Eclipse Che <https://www.eclipse.org/che/>`_ and surely others).
  Depending on your choice, please read their documentation carefully so you can add their own requirements on top the TPL images that are already available.
- Another option is to develop directly inside the container (*i.e.* not remotely).
  Install your favorite development inside the image (be mindful of X display issues), connect to the running container and start hacking!
- It is also possible to develop directly in the cloud using `GitHub codespaces <https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces>`_.
  This product will let you buy a machine in the cloud with an environment already configured to build and run ``geos``.
  To make it work, create a branch and/or fork the repository, then before creating your ``codespace`` instance, control the version of the TPL you need (defined by ``build.args.GEOS_TPL_TAG`` in `.devcontainer/devcontainer.json <https://github.com/GEOS-DEV/GEOS/blob/develop/.devcontainer/devcontainer.json>`_).
  (You may most probably stick to the ``GEOSX_TPL_TAG`` of the ``.github/workflows/ci_tests.yml`` file).
  The submodules are automatically cloned (expect for the ``integratedTests`` which you may need to ``init`` yourself if you really need them).
  You do not need to run the ``scripts/config-build.py`` scripts since ``cmake`` and ``vscode`` are already configured.
  Last, run ``cmake`` through the ``vscode`` interface and start hacking!

You must first `install docker <https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/>`_ on your machine.
Note that there now exists a `rootless install <https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/rootless/>`_ that may help you in case you are not granted extended permissions on your environment.
Also be aware that nvidia provides its own `nvidia-docker <https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker>`_ that grants access to GPUs.

Once you've installed docker, you must select from our `docker registry <https://hub.docker.com/u/geosx/>`_ the target environment you want to develop into.

- You can select the distribution you are comfortable with, or you may want to mimic (to some extend) a production environment.
- Our containers are built with a relative CPU agnosticism (still ``x86_64``), so you should be fine.
- Our GPU containers are built for a dedicated ``compute capability`` that may not match yours. Please dive into our configuration files and refer to the `official nvidia page <https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus>`_ to see what matches your needs.
- There may be risks of kernel inconsistency between the container and the host, but if you have relatively modern systems (and/or if you do not interact directly with the kernel like ``perf``) it should be fine.
- You may have noticed that our docker containers are tagged like ``224-965``. Please refer to :ref:`Continuous_Integration_process` for further information.

Now that you've selected your target environment, you must be aware that just running a TPL docker image is not enough to let you develop.
You'll have to add extra tools.

The following `example` is for our ``ubuntu`` flavors.
You'll notice the arguments ``IMG``, ``VERSION``, ``ORG``.
While surely overkill for most cases, if you develop in GEOS on a regular basis you'll appreciate being able to switch containers easily.
For example, simply create the image ``remote-dev-ubuntu20.04-gcc9:224-965`` by running

.. code-block:: console

    export VERSION=224-965
    export IMG=ubuntu20.04-gcc9
    export REMOTE_DEV_IMG=remote-dev-${IMG}
    docker build --build-arg ORG=geosx --build-arg IMG=${IMG} --build-arg VERSION=${VERSION} -t ${REMOTE_DEV_IMG}:${VERSION} -f /path/to/Dockerfile .

And the ``Dockerfile`` is the following (comments are embedded)

.. literalinclude:: Dockerfile-remote-dev.example
   :linenos:

Now that you've created the image, you must instantiate it as a container.
I like to do

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --cap-add=SYS_PTRACE -d --name ${REMOTE_DEV_IMG}-${VERSION} -p 64000:22 -p 11111:11111 -p 64010-64020:64010-64020 ${REMOTE_DEV_IMG}:${VERSION}

that creates the container ``remote-dev-ubuntu20.04-gcc9-224-965``, running instance of ``remote-dev-ubuntu20.04-gcc9:224-965``.

- Note that you'll have to access your remote development instance though port ``64000`` (forwarded to standard port ``22`` by docker).
- Additional port ``11111`` and ports from ``64010`` to ``64020`` will be open if you need them (remote `paraview connection <https://docs.paraview.org/en/latest/ReferenceManual/parallelDataVisualization.html>`_ , multiple instances of `gdbserver <https://sourceware.org/gdb/current/onlinedocs/gdb.html/Server.html>`_, ...).
- Please be aware of how to retrieve your code back: you may want to bind mount volumes and store you code there (``-v``/``--volume=`` options of `docker run <https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/>`_).
- Change ``docker`` to ``nvidia-docker`` and add the ``--gpus=...`` option for GPUs.

You can stop and restart your container with

.. code-block:: console

    docker stop ${REMOTE_DEV_IMG}-${VERSION}
    docker start ${REMOTE_DEV_IMG}-${VERSION}

Now hack.

Commit message:

Read GEOS_TPL_TAG from devcontainer.json: it's now unique

src/docs/sphinx/developerGuide/Contributing/UsingDocker.rst, after:

.. _UsingDocker:

[Unsupported] Developing inside Docker with precompiled TPL binaries
====================================================================

For development purposes, you may want to use the publicly available docker images instead of compiling them yourself.
While this is possible and this page will help you in through this journey, please note that *this is not officially supported by the GEOS team that reserves the right to modify its workflow or delete elements on which you may have build your own workflow*.

There are multiple options to use the exposed docker images.

- A lot of IDE now provide remote development modes (e.g. `CLion <https://www.jetbrains.com/help/clion/remote-projects-support.html>`_, `VS Code <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/remote-overview>`_, `Eclipse Che <https://www.eclipse.org/che/>`_ and surely others).
  Depending on your choice, please read their documentation carefully so you can add their own requirements on top the TPL images that are already available.
- Another option is to develop directly inside the container (*i.e.* not remotely).
  Install your favorite development inside the image (be mindful of X display issues), connect to the running container and start hacking!
- It is also possible to develop directly in the cloud using `GitHub codespaces <https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces>`_.
  This product will let you buy a machine in the cloud with an environment already configured to build and run ``geos``.
  The submodules are automatically cloned (except for the ``integratedTests`` which you may need to ``init`` yourself if you really need them, see `.devcontainer/postCreateCommand.sh <https://github.com/GEOS-DEV/GEOS/blob/develop/.devcontainer/postCreateCommand.sh>`_).
  You do not need to run the ``scripts/config-build.py`` scripts since ``cmake`` and ``vscode`` are already configured.
  Last, run ``cmake`` through the ``vscode`` interface and start hacking!

You must first `install docker <https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/>`_ on your machine.
Note that there now exists a `rootless install <https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/rootless/>`_ that may help you in case you are not granted extended permissions on your environment.
Also be aware that nvidia provides its own `nvidia-docker <https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker>`_ that grants access to GPUs.

Once you've installed docker, you must select from our `docker registry <https://hub.docker.com/u/geosx/>`_ the target environment you want to develop into.

- You can select the distribution you are comfortable with, or you may want to mimic (to some extend) a production environment.
- Our containers are built with a relative CPU agnosticism (still ``x86_64``), so you should be fine.
- Our GPU containers are built for a dedicated ``compute capability`` that may not match yours. Please dive into our configuration files and refer to the `official nvidia page <https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus>`_ to see what matches your needs.
- There may be risks of kernel inconsistency between the container and the host, but if you have relatively modern systems (and/or if you do not interact directly with the kernel like ``perf``) it should be fine.
- You may have noticed that our docker containers are tagged like ``224-965``. Please refer to :ref:`Continuous_Integration_process` for further information.

Now that you've selected your target environment, you must be aware that just running a TPL docker image is not enough to let you develop.
You'll have to add extra tools.

The following `example` is for our ``ubuntu`` flavors.
You'll notice the arguments ``IMG``, ``VERSION``, ``ORG``.
While surely overkill for most cases, if you develop in GEOS on a regular basis you'll appreciate being able to switch containers easily.
For example, simply create the image ``remote-dev-ubuntu20.04-gcc9:224-965`` by running

.. code-block:: console

    export VERSION=224-965
    export IMG=ubuntu20.04-gcc9
    export REMOTE_DEV_IMG=remote-dev-${IMG}
    docker build --build-arg ORG=geosx --build-arg IMG=${IMG} --build-arg VERSION=${VERSION} -t ${REMOTE_DEV_IMG}:${VERSION} -f /path/to/Dockerfile .

And the ``Dockerfile`` is the following (comments are embedded)

.. literalinclude:: Dockerfile-remote-dev.example
   :linenos:

Now that you've created the image, you must instantiate it as a container.
I like to do

.. code-block:: console

    docker run --cap-add=SYS_PTRACE -d --name ${REMOTE_DEV_IMG}-${VERSION} -p 64000:22 -p 11111:11111 -p 64010-64020:64010-64020 ${REMOTE_DEV_IMG}:${VERSION}

that creates the container ``remote-dev-ubuntu20.04-gcc9-224-965``, running instance of ``remote-dev-ubuntu20.04-gcc9:224-965``.

- Note that you'll have to access your remote development instance though port ``64000`` (forwarded to standard port ``22`` by docker).
- Additional port ``11111`` and ports from ``64010`` to ``64020`` will be open if you need them (remote `paraview connection <https://docs.paraview.org/en/latest/ReferenceManual/parallelDataVisualization.html>`_ , multiple instances of `gdbserver <https://sourceware.org/gdb/current/onlinedocs/gdb.html/Server.html>`_, ...).
- Please be aware of how to retrieve your code back: you may want to bind mount volumes and store you code there (``-v``/``--volume=`` options of `docker run <https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/>`_).
- Change ``docker`` to ``nvidia-docker`` and add the ``--gpus=...`` option for GPUs.

You can stop and restart your container with

.. code-block:: console

    docker stop ${REMOTE_DEV_IMG}-${VERSION}
    docker start ${REMOTE_DEV_IMG}-${VERSION}

Now hack.
